
Step 1: when and where does supply matter?
Correlation Research:
	Sheet Corr 1 in Submarket_Study.xlsx
		Bisect the submarkets into two groups:
			Group A submarkets that have experienced periods of supply growth (>10) where rents  	respond to changes in supply (Rsq > 0.15)
			Group B submarkets that have experienced periods of supply growth (>10) where rents do not respond to changes in supply (Rsq < 0.01)

Elasticity Research
	Sheet Elas 1 in Submarket_Study.xlsx
		Take the submarket groups identified above and VLOOKUP their Elasticities
		What is the average Elasticity of the submarkets from Group A?
		What is the average Elasticity of the submarkets from Group B?
		
Comparison
	Using a statistical TTest find if the difference in means is significant between the average elasticity of Group A and Group B
	If so: can we conclude that having a higher (lower) elasticity of supply is a factor that leads to a greater (lesser) response in rent growth when supply increases?
	If not: can we conclude that there is no consistent relationship between supply and rent growth?
	Look at some historical examples from the data of:
		Submarkest that had positive or negative supply shocks (defined as periods where supply increased/decreased by >abs(10%)) and see what happened to the rent growth in those submarkets after the shock
		Can you find any common factors in those submarkets? Do they belong to large MSAs or small MSAs? Do they have high or low elasticities of supply?
		
Step 3:
	Go into the Mkt. Analysis excel and analyze which large markets have high/low supply elasticity. 
	Compare that to historical rent growth to see if there's a link

Preregistered Hypothesis: 
We know that housing supply elasticity in the US is declining, and that there is a housing shortage in the US. There's pent-up demand for housing.
We want to know if, at the submarket level, past elasticities indicate future rent volatilities. 
My hypothesis is that there is latent demand such that demand is very elastic, and that submarkets with high inelasticities (meaning supply does not increase as a response to increased rent) will have rents that move largely independently of supply; conversely, markets who quickly respond to increased rents with more supply, will have lower volatilities (more depressed rent growth). This would indicate a pent up level of demand that is ready to absorb what would appear to be excess supply, in markets with inelasticity. 

CA: My hypothesis is that markets with high supply elasticity have no correlation to rent growth (constant level of supply meeting demand, so price fluctuations are independent); on the other hand, markets with low housing elasticity have a higher correlation to rent growth because of various constraints on the supply side (land scarcity, land-use regulation, unemployment rate, etc.)

CA TODO: 
1) Outline our findings
2) Test our findings out-of-sample [in Submarket_Study_ML OOS tab]
3) Based on our findings, recommend most and least attractive submarkets in our markets
4) Identify most attractive submarkets in other (non FCP) markets
_____________
5) Presentation
	a) problem: supply and rent don't follow a consistent relationship
	b) background: 
		other research
		what we learned about elasticity
		+ agglomeration economies <<<< 
		+ examples of products that don't follow normal supply/demand curves: vblen goods
	c) our findings
		copy in the graphs from the submarket analysis
		ML TODO: create the market version
		CA TODO: make graphs off the market version
	d) our recommendations
		from the Recommendations tab

If time
6) Publication
